believe it or not the most recent
Australian clothing standard was based
upon data from a study conducted in 1926
and as you can see fashion has changed
quite a bit since then although the
standard was revised this was way back
in nineteen seventy five and with the
latest statistics showing that
Australians are now bigger than ever
before it's hardly surprising that it's
since been abandoned as a relevant to
today's body sizes in the absence of any
definitive standard Australian designers
and clothing manufacturers been pretty
much left to their own devices for
several years now basing their
measurements on sales history a little
market research and in some cases just
plain off gets work as a result clothing
sizes are quite literally all over the
shop to find out how bad things are I've
come here to Sydney's pitt street mall
for a little bit of market research
finding a straight black skirt isn't
difficult finding out what size I am
proves to be more of a challenge
according to Portman's I'm a size 14 but
in Suzanne i'm actually a ten country
road has me pegged as a medium entire
gotta drop back down to attend only to
shoot right back up to a 14 and Alanna
hill I decided to speak to Joanne kellec
executive director of the Council of
textile and fashion industry's Australia
to see if she could shed a little more
light on the situation alright tonight
me there's no two ways about that it's
it's an absolute nightmare we import
just under a billion units per annum in
an apparel into this country every year
you try finding what you want in that
space it's a nightmare I'm astounded at
if I asked a designer for instance
describe to me your base eyes and who is
the biggest customer that you're serving
and what's the smallest customer and
what do they look like you're designing
for them what do they look like tell me
some of the characteristics actually
give me a waist size or a bust size and
we seem to be in a situation now where
they've lost that knowledge they can't
they can't describe it what do you say
so
moving forward well we need to get it
smart about this and gather the data we
actually need to profile the australian
population we now know that we're a
diverse population multicultural so in
that space we need to do a sample survey
we have to know if we're going to be
good product developers in this country
we have to know what the averages are
and where the starting points are and
where the extremes are we help way
behind you know the first study was done
probably in the UK i think it was 10 15
years ago and they're on to their second
and third studies so we are way behind
but there's one good aspect about that
because that means we can pick the eye
teeth out of the good bits that have
been done internationally and do it a
lot smarter and I believe we can do it a
lot smarter and I would like to see
Australia do it a lot smoother sadly the
situation doesn't show signs of changing
anytime soon so until someone decides to
fund the national sizing survey will all
be stuck in the changing rooms
it's a little bit Current Affair